For a score of 1, the response must

■ show the writer has a basic understanding of the parts of the case history that relate to the question.  
■ appropriately address one component of the question.  
■ provide a weak explanation (if requested) but still be supported with relevant evidence.  
■ provide evidence that the writer possesses some knowledge of pedagogical concepts, facts, theories, methodologies, or procedures relevant to the question.

For a score of 0, the response must

■ show the writer misunderstood the parts of the case history that relate to the question.  
■ fail to address the question.  
■ not be supported by relevant evidence.  
■ provide little evidence that the writer possesses some knowledge of pedagogical concepts, facts, theories, methodologies, or procedures relevant to the question.

## Answers and Explanations

## PLT Case History 6.1 Mr. DeSoto

1. Mr. DeSoto and the students could construct a Reading Strategies bulletin board on which they display the reading strategies they could use to help them comprehend texts. During group discussions of passages, they could share what strategies they used with particularly difficult parts. Also, students could keep a journal as they read. In the journal they could reflect on the meanings they are making from the readings and the reading comprehension strategies they are using successfully and unsuccessfully. Mr. DeSoto should do think alouds in which he is not successful using a particular strategy and show how he works through several strategies to help him finally arrive at an understanding of the text. Finally, he should invite students to demonstrate how they think aloud through strategies as they read.

2. An authentic approach Mr. DeSoto could use is to have the students write Readers Theater scripts of the passages they read and perform the scripts. Their group performances will show how they made meaning of their reading. Readers Theater is authentic in that it requires students to show how they have interpreted meaning from the text. It requires students to use higher-order thinking skills. Also, Readers Theater is a form of authentic assessment because it connects the readings to personal experiences to which the students can relate. The performance of the script for classmates provides a real-world audience that will respond authentically.

3. A method Mr. DeSoto could use to teach students reading comprehension strategies is to use explicit strategy instruction. After observing and surveying students to determine what strategies would help them, bring together a small group of students who would benefit from a mini-lesson on a particular strategy. Collect several passages from classroom readings. Select passages that will help you model the strategy. Make them into slides in a PowerPoint presentation or use whatever form of technology you have available to display the passages. First, activate the students' prior knowledge about the passage's topic. Then, introduce the strategy you will be teaching them, describe it through an example, explain why it is beneficial, and discuss when it could be used. Model using it with a couple of passages, then provide guided and independent practice with other passages until the students seem confident with its use.

## PLT Case History 6.2 Keanna Petersen

1. To address Keanna's needs, her teacher could try these strategies. He could present ideas in different ways. He could, for example, present new information through a graphic organizer, explain the information orally, provide readings, and then talk with Keanna to determine what gaps of understanding still exist. He could also extend conversations and discussions about topics, considering oral language is the foundation for written language. Practicing and hearing new vocabulary and names before being expected to read about them will help Keanna when she sees them in writing. Using the new terms and names in small-group discussions or think-pair-share groups will help her self-monitor her understandings, too.

2. There are a number of factors that influence adolescents' decline in motivation. At their age, many begin to question their goals, values, and belief systems. They may question a grading system that is used to place students and determine if they merit retention, promotion, and even graduation. They question expectations that compare them to how well they do in comparison with their peers. Many adolescents begin to compare themselves to their peers and start to lose confidence in their abilities. They begin to see school not as learning and mastering subjects but as performing well in comparison to their peers. As a result, motivation declines.

3. Mr. Elkin can influence and support his students' motivation. He can set clear expectations and goals for all of the assignments. If he expects all students to come to class prepared, he should find out why Keanna is not completing the work. Perhaps she is having difficulty and would benefit from coming in for extra help or being assigned a homework tutor. Recognizing and providing support while maintaining high expectations will influence Keanna's motivation to meet the teacher's expectations. Mr. Elkin should also help Keanna set personal goals for her progress while she is in Schoharie. She is not motivated by the grades but may be motivated by goals she sets for herself. When provided support to achieve personal goals through the guidance of Mr. Elkin, Keanna will be self-motivated to meet these goals.

## PLT Case History 6.3 Mr. Granato

1. There are advantages and disadvantages to parents being highly involved in their children's academic lives. One advantage is the belief that any attention is better than no attention. "Helicopter parents" watch over their children and advocate for them. They model good behaviors and ways to get things accomplished. In this case, Mrs. Maynard is modeling organization and follow-through, and how to talk with teachers and others in positions of authority. The disadvantages would include the issue that helicopter parents often seem to overstep their bounds by talking for the student when he or she should be advocating for him- or herself. There comes a point where Cody has to become responsible for himself. In life there probably won't be someone who is always supporting, pushing, and looking out for him. He has to learn to do this himself.

2. By the definition of a “helicopter parent” given in question 1, Mrs. Maynard can be identified as one. She has micromanaged Cody’s academic life over the past 13 years by constantly contacting his teachers, checking his homework, and checking up on his progress. Although she is doing her job as a parent, she seems to be overbearing. One could presume she has caused Cody to be semi-interested in school. He can actually sit back and let his mother do things for him that he should be doing. For example, if he has a question about homework, he should be the one asking the teacher, not his mother. To be motivated, students should feel they are in positions of power, authority, and ownership to be engaged in meaningful learning.

3. So far, the meeting is not going as well as one might hope. Mrs. Maynard seems to be in charge and ready to spring at Mr. Granato, putting him on defense. The purpose of the meeting is to share ideas and get to know each other, though. Hopefully, Mr. Granato can have a chance before Mrs. Maynard has to leave, to talk with both parties to come up with a plan to improve Cody's motivation and enthusiasm about the academic focus of twelfth-grade. It would be helpful if he could help Cody articulate what would motivate him to be more engaged in the class and to be in command of his own learning. He should treat Mrs. Maynard respectfully and give her credit for trying to support Cody.

## PLT Case History 6.4 Ms. Strub

1. Ms. Strub should be concerned about Annie's self-concept, feelings of isolation, and how they will influence her confidence and academics. Ms. Strub should continue to observe and write anecdotal notes in her journal to document specific behaviors, comments, and interactions that seem positive or troublesome. (Note the positive should be documented also so Ms. Strub can analyze contexts that cause positive responses and can capitalize on them.) Adolescence can be a troublesome time. Perhaps Annie is just going through a rough stage. Ms. Strub should check with past teachers and when she has enough evidence to support any concerns she has, she should talk with Annie's family to gain further insight. Ms. Strub's main concerns should be Annie's mental health and how Ms. Strub can best meet Annie's learning needs as a result.

2. We don't know enough about Annie and about how Ms. Strub runs her classes at this point to predict how Annie's social and emotional status might influence her learning in Ms. Strub's class. If Ms. Strub values collaboration, cooperation, and group work in her class, Annie could react in two ways: She could recoil and not participate due to her shyness, or she could become more comfortable working in small groups intimately with people. Annie seems to crave authentic friendship, which may develop as a result of getting to know people in safe contexts, such as small groups. Ms. Strub will have to keep a close eye on how Annie reacts to various methods so she can design lessons that will help Annie develop socially, emotionally, and academically.

3. During adolescence, young women like Annie are susceptible to developing drug or alcohol dependence. Adolescence is depicted as a time young people demonstrate risky behaviors and recklessness. They are trying out their newfound independence from their families and trying to shape identities for themselves. They try new things, sometimes to be accepted as part of a group of peers. Acceptance into peer groups is extremely important to adolescents as shown in Annie's poem. Furthermore, although most young people are psychologically healthy, they can begin to exhibit signs of mental illness. Mood disorders (i.e., clinical depression, bipolar disorder, and anxiety disorders) may emerge during late adolescence. Suicide is a leading cause of death in adolescence, so it is an educator's responsibility to watch for signs of teens who are dealing with what they consider to be severe emotional trauma (i.e., struggling with peer relationships, being bullied, pressure from parents, and feelings of not belonging). Adolescence can be a time of turmoil and self-doubt. It appears Annie is struggling as evidenced in her poem and behaviors.

## Multiple-Choice Questions I

1. a. With reciprocal teaching, students learn to use these four interrelated strategies when reading across the content areas: question, clarify, summarize, and predict.  
2. b. GIST is a summarization strategy students use. In the GIST approach, students write a 15-word summary of an article, then work to delete trivial propositions to choose the main idea. Then they select topic statements that fit the 15-word summary.  
3. a. An anticipation/reaction guide assesses students' knowledge before they begin a unit of study or a lesson and again after they participate in the unit or lesson. The guide consists of a list of statements the student marks as true or false. They indicate what the students know or anticipate being true or false and then what they learned about the topic after study.  
4. d. An inquiry chart is used to look at critical questions by integrating what the student already knows about a topic and what information is gained from various resources.  
5. d. A network tree is used to represent a problem, its possible or attempted solutions, and their results.  
6. c. Content-area teachers, in order to be effective, must know how to improve the literacy levels of struggling readers and writers whom they work with in their classes.  
7. b. A self-regulated reader or writer understands the tasks of an activity and uses effective strategies that help him or her complete the tasks. Self-regulation refers to understanding the task so the reader or writer knows how to perform to achieve his or her goals.

8. b. Teacher questioning is the most common form of formative assessment. Questioning may occur orally or in writing. However, teachers should not rely solely on questioning techniques.  
9. d. Morphology refers to the linguistic ability to identify and describe the components of a word, such as its root and affixes (prefixes and suffixes).  
10. b. The psychologist G. Stanley Hall referred to the years of adolescence as those of storm and stress, reflecting the turbulence experienced due to the adolescent's transitioning from childhood to adulthood.  
11. a. Between 2000 and 2008, the dropout rates of high school students differed by race and ethnicity. While overall, the rates decreased; the rates were lower for Whites and Blacks than for Hispanics and Asians/Pacific Islanders.  
12. a. Due process hearings may be requested by either the parent or school when there is a dispute regarding the eligibility, placement, supports, or services necessary to ensure a free and appropriate public education that meets the student's needs. Due process is one of the six principles of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) of 2004.

## Multiple-Choice Questions II

1. a. Word identification or decoding is the ability to read a word or sound it out.  
2. c. An IEP must include current performance, annual goals, special education and related services, participation with nondisabled children, participation in state and district-wide tests, dates and places for services, transition service needs, needed transition services, age of majority, and statement of how progress will be measured.

3. b. Erikson's stage for adolescents refers to identity versus role confusion, in which development depends on what they do versus what others do for or to them.  
4. a. The main objective of PL 94-142 is to mainstream and integrate students with handicaps into general education classes as appropriate  
5. d. The curriculum guide is based on the state or local learning standards and typically describes the goals of a program as well as the topics that will be taught over a span of time, such as an academic year. Curriculum guides vary in the degree of specificity and content, but basically they articulate what will be taught.  
6. b. Reviewing material for the previous class with the students allows the educator to determine what the child remembers and understands from the previous class. If misunderstandings or gaps are revealed, the educator can reteach as needed. There is no evidence to support the other three choices.  
7. c. Choice c is the only one that requires only the recall of factual information. Other choices require the use of analysis and critical thinking skills. Factual recall questions/prompts typically start with words such as define, describe, explain, identify, locate, who, when, where, and what.  
8. c. Families are important connections to make. Schools should always attempt to accommodate families' schedules, transportation issues, and feelings of isolation.

9. a. Constructivist approaches require the "guide on the side" to be knowledgeable and skilled in facilitating students' learning to make sense of new information using what they already know. Constructivism does not require direct instruction or memorization be eliminated from instruction.  
10. c. Typically, nonfluent speakers can understand written English text before they can accurately pronounce all of the words out loud. The teacher should not make assumptions about the reading abilities of any student; rather, the teacher should review the permanent records of the student and follow up daily with formal and informal assessments of reading skills. Readers benefit from good models, and nonfluent speakers benefit from hearing others model accurate pronunciations.  
11. d. The first passage does not imply teachers should open their classrooms to any discussions. Choice d is the best choice because it refers to careful planning of the class discussion. The teacher would want to avoid scaring students with speculative hearsay, especially the day it occurred.  
12. b. The most important thing to know is how the authors are defining the term controversial issues. Readers don't know what the authors consider controversial. They could be very conservative and think teaching biology is controversial. Or, they could be very progressive and think that sex-change operation methods are appropriate to discuss with adolescents in a classroom situation.

## Praxis II Scoring

Evaluate how you did on this practice exam by scoring your short-answer responses and your multiple-choice answers. Bring your short-answer responses to a trusted friend to score so you can better see how you did. Reflect on the types of questions you missed most frequently.

The key to doing well on the Praxis II is to practice, read widely, and stay organized and focused. You have self-assessed your strengths and weaknesses and learned how to manage the various types of questions on the test. Enter the exam with confidence, knowing you are ready and equipped to do your very best!